My name is Tiffany and
I work at Google and my job is to ensure that our
products are fair and inclusive. My first role in data analytics
probably harkens back to my time spent in the United States Army. And there I did a lot of work with data, trying to understand which decisions
I should make for my soldiers and for my unit making sure I was making
the best data driven decisions to ensure their safety and
well being. Coming out of the military, I felt a tremendous amount
of impostor syndrome. I felt insecure. I was unsure of what could be good at
since I had such a highly specialized job. But I talked to a lot of mentors,
a lot of friends that encouraged me and told me about transferable skills. Some of the skills that I
gained in the army were very, very clearly helpful to
me in my career today. The one that stands out to me the most
is the ability to frame a problem. So the ability to think about what
someone needs, the data that you have and how to connect in the middle,
how to frame it out. So there's no scope creep so that you have
a very crisp and clear articulation of the problem and a very clear and
crisp articulation of that solution set. And I learned that in the military and
I continue to build upon my skill base, continue to go online and read books and
shore up that knowledge and over time I became more and more
confident of what I could accomplish and the things that I could reach for.
All of the courses that I took, all of the hard work, all of the imposter
syndrome really all led me to the job, my dream job, that I have today. It's important for people that
have nontraditional backgrounds or nontraditional path to get into
a certificate program such as this because we know that education is
uneven, opportunities are uneven. I'm one of the first people in my family
to go to college, to get an education and being able to do so has opened up so
many doors for me and so many of you may be
in the same situation. If I were to give anyone advice as they're
transitioning out of the military and into a data analytics career, I would
tell them to use some Google products. So Google has a career translator where
you can put your military service, your branch, your job into that
translator and it will spit out transferrable skills that you may have
that you can place on your resume. I'd encourage you to take the leap
of faith and get rid of and shed the impostor syndrome and
apply for as many jobs as you can. And finally I would encourage
everyone to try to find someone who works at the company. Try to get that referral. Be bold on
Linkedin, be bold on other platforms and just try to make your way into
the job that you see yourself in.