[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Daisy,
data science manager at Google. I lead a team of data scientists. We focus on delivery, insight and machine learning solution to improve
financial analysts their productivities. In the past three years I
conduct about 200 interviews. I typically hire mid level
data scientists with some relevant work experience for
about at least five years. But in the past I also had experience to
hire entry level data scientists as well. I look for candidates with the experience
that they leverage advanced analytics solutions or machine learning
solutions to drive business impact. Having those evidence on the resume or demonstrate those experience throughout
the interview is quite critical. And I don't really emphasize on certain
experience from specific industry. And the reason is I see a good data
scientist can actually leverage their knowledge and then adopt into
a different business environment. The successful candidates
are those they are able to relate their past projects or
their schoolwork to any type of problems. Our interview questions
normally cover two parts. One is focused on understand
the candidates, their technical knowledge. In that aspect we usually will want
to understand their coding skill, particularly in Ro, Python and SQL. In addition, we also want to understand
their knowledge in machine learning or statistics as well. And the second part would be
related more on the soft skill. In these aspects we care about whether
the data scientists can work with the business stakeholders,
understand their problems. And then also be able to
recommend the analysis and the insights to kind of help them
to solve their business problems. Sometimes I bump into the candidate that
they get stuck on the first questions. And then they will keep thinking about
that question throughout the entire interview. So that's also something I would
definitely encourage the candidates. Give your best but also know when to stop. If you are interested in
becoming a data scientist but you don't have previous work
experience in this field I would recommend you to start thinking
about build up your portfolio. That can be through doing like capstone
projects from the online courses or certificate program and
also do some pro bono work as well. And then there is also many Keiko type of
competitions that will help you understand what close to the real world
problem will look like. So definitely highly recommend
to build up this portfolio and start to get exposure to the messy data
which is close to the real world problem.