Hi. I'm Hautahi, I'm Senior Data
Scientist at Google. I work primarily on equal treatment and
algorithmic fairness in the YouTube
recommender systems. We try to make sure that
our systems are fair, and inclusive for both
users and creators. I don't think it's
possible to have a successful data science career relying only on
technical know-how. If you rely just on
technical know-how and not effective communication, then you'll run a risk
of misunderstandings and frustrations amongst your colleagues
and stakeholders. My team tends to work across product lines
within YouTube. What that requires is reformulate
what you're doing with Team A and terms of the type of language that Team B
is more familiar with, and the important differences between how they think
about their products. The majority of your work
relies on good communication, whether that's
within a small team, that share technical
knowledge or sharing that information across the broader range
of stakeholders. A great way to show effective
communication skills and interview is by talking
about specific examples, whether they be from previous jobs or in
your personal life, they really illustrate
that you've considered the
question carefully. This definitely doesn't need
to be in data analytics. It can be in any experience that you've had
previously in life. In fact, one of the
things I value about my data science colleagues is the broad range of backgrounds. From a personal perspective, I don't think that my background
is traditional at all. I'm an immigrant to the USA. I was raised in rural New
Zealand on my tribal lands, on Maori, indigenous
New Zealander, and only spoke Maori till I was about seven
or eight years old. I think my Maori
background helped in my communication skills
because Maori culture places a large emphasis
on verbal communication. I also think that previous jobs that not at all related
to data analytics, for example, in college, I worked at a hotel and got to speak to people from a
wide range of backgrounds, and was able to learn communication skills
just by doing that. My advice to those who are maybe struggling a little
with workplace skills, and communication is to be asked to be
invited to meetings. We don't need to contribute, but you can use it
as an opportunity to observe people who are
good at communicating. The other is to maybe
ask those people whose communication
skills you admire to perhaps be a mentor and teach you some
of those skills. In general, just observe people who are good
at communicating. It doesn't just need to be
in a workplace environment, but can be elsewhere in
your personal life too.