Hello again! Let's discuss some of the course items you'll encounter in your learning journey. In this program, you'll code in Python, discover the stories that data holds, develop data visuals, use statistical tools, build models, and even dabble with
some machine learning! Along the way you'll build a portfolio full of data projects, in addition to this program's capstone. Whether you're looking to switch careers, start a new career, improve your skills, or advance beyond your
current role in a company, the Google Career Certificates can help guide you as you take steps towards new opportunities. We've gathered some amazing instructors to support you on your journey and they'd like to
introduce themselves now: Hello! I'm Adrian and I am a
Customer Engineer at Google. Together we will explore one of the fastest growing
programming languages, Python. You'll learn the basics, which will help you write scripts that perform a number of key mathematical
operations on datasets, all designed to help you
unlock the stories within data. Hi there! I'm Robb. I am a Consumer Product Leader. I work on marketing
projects here at Google. I'm excited to talk to you about how to tell stories using data. We'll discuss the six practices of exploratory data analysis and how to identify the trends and patterns in it. We will also learn about the importance of designing and presenting
data visualizations using Python and Tableau, which can help you understand your data and convey it to others. Hello! My name is Evan. I'm an Economist and I consult with various
teams across at Google. Statistics helps you
generate more complex ideas from the data itself. In our time together, you'll discover how you
can generate insights, draw conclusions, make inferences, create estimates, and make predictions. Hello! I'm Tiffany, and I'm a
Marketing Science Lead, and I work with marketing
data here at Google. I will guide you through the process of modeling relationships between variables. Together, we'll explore different regression models and hypothesis tests. We'll also talk about model assumptions, construction, evaluation, and interpretation as the means for answering data-driven questions. Hello! I'm Susheela. I'm a Data Scientist and I work on projects for
YouTube here at Google. I will guide you through building systems that can learn and adapt without a specific set of instructions. We'll discuss how machine learning is transforming the
process of data analysis – as you construct your own models. Hello! I'm Tiffany, and I lead teams focused on building AI responsibly here at Google. I'll introduce you to career resources and portfolio projects, and guide you through the capstone course at the end of the program. I'll assist you with
different opportunities and tools that will set you up for success on the job market. And of course, you already know I'll be guiding you through course one. This is such a great time to grow and advance your career
as a data professional. Your path to a career full of new opportunities awaits!