How's it going? My
name is Adrian, and I'm a customer engineer at Google. A customer engineer at
Google is the bridge between the technical and
business components or aspects of corporate America. We help customers leverage our technology to meet
their business needs. One of the most exciting projects and even
interesting that I worked on was creating a
unified patient record. This project was for a lab
diagnostics company that was really looking into creating
a 360 view of a patient. Our project focused
on consolidating information across
different systems. You can imagine taking your lab diagnostics data for your most recent
routine blood work, or even something that's a
little bit more specific. Diabetes or a glucagon test, taking that and all that
information that you've provided in terms
of biological data, getting that centralized
and standardized on one environment so that if it is your physician looking
at the data or your radiologists
or nutritionist, they have a complete view
of all of your data, and they can not
only just access it, but they can visualize
it in real time. One of the key components
of this project was the use of virtual reality headsets as the main
visualization component. For me, what this meant was, I got the ability to
do some game design, create some human skins
in terms of the body, and use different colors and
programming functionality to indicate for example
the system is looking healthy or if it's looking like it needs concern
or intervention. We can see over time how the diagnostic test results have changed and the impact that
this has on our patients. At the end of the
day, what we had was a project that unified
all of the data for the patient and gave the key medical professionals
a way to visualize it. The best piece of
advice that I have for you is to remain
confident in yourself. While you might be new to this new role or
this new company, you're coming with skills that are repeatable, that
are transferable. Whether it'd be the way that you approach and problem solve, whether it'd be the
rapport you're able to build with your stakeholders and the soft skills
and ensuring that you can build those
relationships or even when it comes to
communication and writing a succinct and concise email. They're going to be ways where you're going to take
what you've done before and apply them
in your new role. You might have to think
outside of the box, but you'll get there.