Recently, you've been
learning about how businesses use data to
guide decision-making, answer questions,
and solve problems. In this video, we'll
investigate how nonprofits to use data analysis to
pursue their unique goals. Nonprofit groups are
created to further a social cause or provide
benefit to the public. As the name suggests, their main purpose
is not about profit, but to foster a collective, public or social advantage. There are some very rewarding
and inspiring opportunities for data professionals
in the nonprofit sector. In particular, data can be applied in order to
help these groups more effectively anticipate and respond to the greatest
areas of need. For instance, maybe a US
charity that provides bicycles for children
would like to determine which neighborhoods
are most in need. They could ask their
data professional to access the US Census Bureau. The professional would use their talents to navigate
the census database, identify key metrics,
and summarize findings with analysis
and data visualizations. This report would highlight where there are
larger numbers of school-age children
in need who would benefit from the resources
of this program. There you go, data
insights lead to inform decisions about
where this nonprofit can do the most good. Now, nonprofits do
more than use data. Many of them also collect it. As you likely know, public entities and
government agencies can be excellent resources
for useful data. Much of it is open data that's
available for general use. As you likely know, open data is data that is
available to the public. It's free to use, and
guidance is provided to help navigate the data sets and
acknowledge the source. While sourcing Open Data is a good way to interact
with data on your own. There are other
opportunities that enable you to refine your skills
while helping others. Data volunteers contribute
to many projects that help nonprofits benefit communities
all over the world. To find out more, here are some organizations to check out. First, the Data Science for
Social Good foundation was launched at the University
of Chicago back in 2013. In 2020, they joined forces
with UNICEF to analyze various aspects of air pollution around the world to help
monitor children's health. DataKind launched in 2011 in New York City with chapters
and the United Kingdom, Bengaluru, San Francisco,
Singapore, and Washington DC. This organization
analyzes the cost of environmental cleanup in different underserved
communities to guide restorative efforts. You can view both
foundations lays efforts through the links and the transcript
for this video. Another option for putting your data skills to good
use are hackathons. A hackathon is an event
where data professionals and programmers come together and collaborate on a
particular project. The goal is to
create a solution to an existing problem
using technology. Some examples include developing better tools for predicting
extreme weather events, creating tech to help elementary school kids learn
important reading skills, and identifying ways that community development
groups can use their data to advance home accessibility
and affordability. Volunteering your data skills to public projects is
an excellent way to contribute to the greater
good while gaining experience and networking
with others in your field. Coming up, we'll take a
deeper look at some data oriented projects in
the public sector and how they're making an
impact around the world.