Data professionals are so
valuable to their companies. They determine which
data streams are most important to specific
business projects, challenges, and initiatives. They identified key
goals for the future. They give their organizations
the ability to take meaningful action by re-imagining processes
and improving operations. To do all of this, data teams require
individuals with diverse skills,
knowledge, and interests. Therefore, there are
countless different data focused roles, responsibilities, and project types,
which are further differentiated by the industries and businesses they support. Among all of these
possibilities, data careers can be
loosely categorized into two complimentary types of
work, technical and strategic. In this video, we'll
investigate both, will also consider
some examples of how data professionals use their expertise to
transform industries. First, let's find out
about the folks whose work requires a heavy emphasis
on technical skills. Some examples of these
professionals are machine learning engineers
and statisticians. Through their expertise in
mathematics, statistics, and computing, they build
models and make predictions. Using tools such
as R and Python, they help their teams extract value from business data sets. The result is a solution that has a direct
positive impact. Another highly technical role
is the expert data analyst, whose work involves exploring
vast and complex data sets to identify directions worth
pursuing in the first place. They ensure that an organization's
data science efforts are directed as
efficiently as possible. Bridging the gap between other technical
data professionals and the strategic work
we'll cover shortly. Now let's consider
data professionals on the more strategic side. These people include business
intelligence professionals and technical project
managers, to name a couple. Strategic data professionals
use their skills to interpret information
that affects an organization's operations, finance, research
and development, and so much more. Their work aligns closely to the overall
business strategy, involves seeking solutions to problems through data analytics. In short, strategic
data professionals maximize information to
guide how a business works. Sometimes you'll find a
company has roles that blend specialized technical
knowledge with strategic data expertise, often an unusual and
very creative ways. Soon we'll learn more about
some of these opportunities, as well as the more specialized technical and strategic roles. Now, let's consider
some examples of how data professionals use their expertise to transform industries
such as finance, health care, manufacturing,
and agriculture. First, the world
of big finance was an early adopter of the
power of data science. With the way information
drives this industry, it's easy to understand why. Data professionals help financial institutions
assess investment risks, monitor market trends, detect
anomalies to reduce fraud, and create a more stable
financial system overall. Data analytics is also
key and health care. Here, the data benefits can
actually be life saving. Data analytics is helping health care
organizations process large amounts of clinical data, which supports the
early detection of a health condition and leads
to more precise diagnosis. Thirdly, data has a big
impact in manufacturing. Data professionals
predict when to perform preventative maintenance to avoid production
line breakdowns, use data to maximize quality assurance
and defect tracking, and artificial intelligence
models help respond to logistical issues and reduce delivery truck
miles on the road, advancing key
sustainability goals. In a time when supply chains, every corner of the world, data enables clear, a near real time
communication with suppliers, retailers, and other
network partners. Data professionals are also advancing approaches
to agriculture. With data insights, farmers develop new ways to
approach crop production, livestock care, forestry,
and agriculture. The inclusion of autonomous
machinery, tractors, and irrigation systems is improving harvesting
technologies as well. If you'd like to keep
learning about how various industries use data analytics, refer to the course
resources on this topic. Here's a little piece
of advice for me. Don't miss an
opportunity to learn from someone in real life. I love asking business
owners, store managers, and client support
professionals about how they use data
each and every day. Who knows, one of
these conversations could open a door to a
future opportunity for you.