Previously, you were introduced
to the PACE framework. As a reminder, PACE
has four stages, plan, analyze,
construct, and execute. We also examined
the rationale and key elements involved in
effective communication. Now, let's investigate
how they can be integrated together
within data projects. At first glance, the
PACE framework easily enables a wide view of an
entire project's workflow, that is, each stage
from planning to executing is logically
sequenced with the beginning, middle, and end of
a data project. As you may recall though, PACE is incredibly
flexible and it doesn't need to be employed
in a linear progression. Often, iteration makes
sense in projects. Let's unpack that
with an example. For reference, we can compare it to the construction
of a building. First, a blueprint is created. This is where the
planning happens. Next, we lay the foundation. We can do this once
we've analyzed the lot space and considered
other variables like cost. Then we add the frame. After that, the roof
can be installed. By the time the structure
is ready for moving, the builder will have progressed through the entire workflow, planning, analyzing, constructing, and executing
the client's vision. In practice, the PACE workflow is meant to serve as
a navigational tool. We created it with the goal of helping you understand the data professional's workflow and as an aid you can consult
in your future role. Now, let's return
to the example. With the roof completed, that makes it possible to begin the inside construction
like installing drywall, electrical components,
and plumbing systems. Each of these jobs also has its own PACE workflow
demonstrated on its own planning document within the larger blueprint, each requiring planning, analyzing, constructing,
and executing. Just like the building example
we've been discussing, as data projects move
into the construct and execute stages
on the global level, you may need to return
to the earlier stages to incorporate additional data or feedback from other
stakeholders. Even while the global project is transitioning into a
new phase of PACE, there can still be
upcoming tasks that are just beginning
their PACE cycles. Regardless of where you might
be in the PACE workflow, communication is what drives the framework to the
realization of the project. At each stage within
the framework, there will always be a need for communication to
improve the workflow. This could be asking
questions about your data, gathering
additional sources, updating stakeholders
on progress, or presenting findings
and receiving feedback. One of the most
important considerations behind the development
of PACE was providing a flexible
structure that allows you to adjust to changes
within a project. Let's return to our
building example. Let's say that during
the installation of the electrical system, the property owner has communicated that
they wish to have an additional charging port for electrical vehicles
added to the plan. To facilitate the change, you would revisit the
PACE framework to plan, analyze, construct, and
execute this new request. Just like in this example, requests from other stakeholders
can come in at anytime. Regardless of the timing of an additional request or task, data professionals need
to be available and accessible throughout the
entire project cycle. Sometimes you may
need to speak at a meeting or participate
in a progress update. Additionally, you may update your progress within
a tracking system. Email conversations and chat
discussions will keep others involved and up-to-date with where you are in your workflow. I'm excited for you to develop
some hands-on experience, practicing different
communication strategies through each stage of PACE. You'll have opportunities to do this later in the program. For now, I want you to remember that a good
data professional is a proactive communicator who responds to questions
in a timely fashion. Keeping other
stakeholders up-to-date with clear explanations can make you the most effective data professional that you can be.