Hi, I'm Tiffany and I lead teams focused on building
AI responsibly here at google. I've served in the United States Army,
worked as a consultant and have worked as a program manager in
privacy and machine learning fairness. Data and having a rich understanding of data has
always been an important part of my job. Today, we have more data available to us
than ever before and it's important to be able to derive insights to help decision
makers make the best possible decisions. I'm so glad you're here and
I really hope this program is to give you all kinds of new
possibilities to think about. You've already learned so much. We've covered the basics of data driven
fields and looked at career roles. How data professionals are being
used by different industries and how those in the field can
make a valuable contribution. You're gaining a vast range of knowledge
and skills which is going to be extremely valuable as you prepare to join us in
the amazing field of data driven careers. At this point in the program, I encourage
you to take some time to reflect on how your experiences so
far are setting you up for a great career. And one way to do that is by enhancing
your current online presence. In the google data analytics certificate,
we covered numerous job related materials, including how to create an effective
resume and LinkedIn profile. This video is about improving
your existing career assets. Those of us who were involved in
the google data analysis certificate, always love receiving learner feedback, especially when it has to do with
someone else's professional success. I remember one person who took the
initiative to refine her linkedin profile as soon as she began the program. She noted that she was currently
working through her program and she added to her profile many of the
technologies she had become familiar with. Well not long after she saw
an advertisement for her dream job, even though she was early on in her DA
education, she decided to apply for it and she got it. The hiring manager told her that the fact
that she had familiarity with those data tools, really set her apart
from other candidates. There are tons of stories just like
this one that proved the value of having a compelling and
professional linkedin presence. So let's get into that now. A professional online presence enables
you to better connect with others in the field. You can share ideas, ask questions or provide links to a useful website or
an interesting article in the news. These are great ways to meet other
people who are passionate about data focused jobs. Even if you're already
part of the community, strengthening your network
makes it even more dynamic. LinkedIn is an amazing way
to follow industry trends. Learn from thought leaders and stay
engaged with the global data analytics community and of course it has job boards
and recruiters who are actively looking for data professionals for
all sorts of organizations and industries. So it's a good idea to always
keep your profile up to date and to be sure to include
a professional photo. Beyond that, consider including a link to
some of the relevant projects you've done in data analytics, such as the portfolio project
you'll work on during this program. As you continue expanding your online
presence to represent the work you're doing in data analytics,
the connections you make will be an important part of having
a truly fulfilling networking experience. Plus, there are also many rewarding in
person networking opportunities which will explore soon. See you then.