Recently you learned about
the value of maintaining a professional
online presence and connecting with others
in the data field. As I noted, there are many professional
networking sites such as LinkedIn that are well worth
your time and involvement. But here's something that
many people don't realize. Some of the best
opportunities are never actually shared
on a networking site. Sometimes there are
professional opportunities that are not publicly
advertised by the employer. There are lots of reasons why some positions are not posted. Maybe an employer
is concerned about revealing details about
confidential projects to its competitors through
a job posting or perhaps the company HR
department doesn't have the resources to review
a flood of applications. Often a business
may choose to use a recruiter instead
of posting jobs. Let's start exploring
how you can increase your visibility to access more opportunities through building
valuable relationships. After all, the more people you connect with professionally, the greater your chances
are for being referred. Be sure to follow best-in-class
organizations and visionary business leaders on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Interact with them and
share their content. If there's a post
you like consider commenting with response
or a thank you. You can also search for data
field webinars featuring interesting speakers and many
of these events are free. This is another fascinating
way to learn while connecting with peers,
colleagues and experts. There are also lots of blogs and online communities that
focus on data fields. Data and tech
companies will often talk about what's
new and important from their point of view but there's a
growing community of bloggers and podcasters who offer great perspectives
of their own. Now let's move to in-person
networking opportunities. The easiest way to find
events is by simply searching for data science or data
analytics events in your area. You'll likely
discover a wide range of engagement opportunities from more formal conferences and seminars to casual meetups
and get togethers. Non-profit associations are
also wonderful resources and may offer free or reduced rate memberships for students. In addition to networking, learning from a
mentor can positively influence your career and life. As you may know, a
mentor is someone who shares knowledge, skills, and experience to help you grow both professionally
and personally. Mentors are trusted advisors
and valuable resources. The first step in finding a
mentor is to determine what you're looking for to narrow
down your potential list. Think about any challenges
you face or foresee and how to address them in order
to advance professionally. Then consider who can help
you grow in these areas, as well as fortify your
existing strengths. Share these things
openly when you formally ask them what
to be your mentor. It's also helpful to note
any common experiences. Perhaps you grew up
in the same city, maybe you both worked
in the same industry. Your mentor doesn't have to be someone you work with currently. Many people find mentors on LinkedIn and association
mentorship program or at a mentor matching event. This really taught me
the value of mentorship. I also learned that having a successful
mentorship experience requires effort and
investment in time. Whether you're preparing to ask the right questions
internalizing the feedback or
scheduling follow-up sessions but it's well worth it. Always be open to
connecting with new people. You never know where a single
conversation will lead.