Hi, I'm Cassie, and I serve as Chief Decision Scientist
at Google Cloud. The very first time that
I fell in love with data, I was eight, maybe
nine years old. I discovered Microsoft Excel
and I fell in love with it, which is an unusual thing. Most kids are out
there climbing trees and here I am
playing with Excel. I had this gemstone collection. I would love putting the
data into a spreadsheet. This collection would grow
not for the gemstones, but definitely to be able to put it into
the spreadsheets. I get excited,
"Oh, a purple one. I don't have an amethyst yet. Now I get to put purple into the color columns." I
was a weird kid. But to me, data was the most
beautiful thing on Earth. As my career progressed, I began to think a lot
about the why of data, because I took it for
granted that data's pretty. But there has to be something important to motivate action. The important bit
was decision-making. If a data point
falls in the forest and doesn't lead to
any kind of action, in my opinion, there's
no point to it. It becomes valuable when it's related to decisions
or real world actions. That's why I got really interested in the
Decision Sciences and studied those alongside what we today call Data Science, even though back then
that was statistics, and big data eventually showed
up as one of them as well. I studied all of those
things together. I remember back when
I was in college, some career counselors asked me, "What major is this? You can't even get
a job with this." Well, today, combining
the Decision Sciences, thinking carefully about the
why plus the data sciences, the information piece, you get to use information
to drive better action. That is what I'm
passionate about. A lot of people
don't realize that without any courses
in data analytics, they are already data analysts. We're all already data analysts. You're watching this course on your computer or
your smartphone, and the information that is being recorded
now as I speak, by the video camera, is stored in a bunch
of matrices as a bunch of numbers
that don't make any sense when you
look at that raw data. When you open it with
the correct software, in this case, your browser, you are extracting meaning, sense from that raw data and
you're learning something. Right now in this very second, you are doing data analysis. There are so many different
ways to work with data. There are so many different
ways to make it useful. Some of them are going to fit your personality
better than others. Just guide yourself
towards what's most fun because
there's also a lot of different people
in these careers, and it's a team sport overall. They're going to
cover the parts that you are less inclined towards. Lean in to the most
fun that you can have pursuing your
individual data personality. Just make it useful and all
the good things will follow.