When investigating a possible new career
path, one of the most important things to consider is its outlook and
potential for growth. Predictions about careers related to data
analysis show that there is no shortage of need for professionals in this field. Over the last decade,
data focused careers have surged. According to estimates by Linkedin, the data science field grew by
over 650% between 2012 and 2017. Many experts believe that we have not yet
seen the full potential of these careers. In fact, the US Bureau of Labor Statistics
stated that data science is one of the fastest growing career fields in
the United States projecting a 30% increase over the next decade. Among the data science professions, one of the fastest growing is artificial
intelligence and machine learning, and we've seen significant advances
in these areas in recent years. At its core, artificial intelligence or
AI is the development of computer systems able to perform tasks that
normally require human intelligence. Thanks to growth in the data sciences,
AI is now becoming more commonplace. These technologies will
continue to evolve and provide more accurate results and
richer insights. And as AI increasingly becomes
an essential component of data work, it's important to be aware of the human bias
that can be imprinted within your work. To counter this, organizations benefit
most from building diverse teams of professionals from different backgrounds
and different life experiences. Incorporating a wide
range of perspectives and worldviews promotes wider representation
and yields more accurate results. As we study the future of the data
professions, I want to emphasize that data professionals have yet to realize the full
potential of artificial intelligence. As these types of technological
innovations continue to evolve, we can expect that
organizations will grow and adapt their business
practices accordingly. With wider and wider adoption
of data analysis techniques, the most likely area for
growth is in specialization. And we expect to see further subdivision
of roles within data focused teams. Ultimately, what I want you
to keep in mind is this, the world is generating more and
more data every year. So it's reasonable to expect labor that
extracts business value from it to be able to earn its keep. More data means more demand for the three
main activities covered by the data professions, statistical inference,
machine learning, and data analytics. So those skills will stay very relevant
though their names might evolve over time. In addition, constant innovation in
the field offers you the opportunity for perpetual learning,
growth, and development. As you may already know, being a data
professional means that your growth and success in this field depend
on a desire to keep learning. In fact, that just might be the reason
you enrolled in this program, and for that, I'm so proud of you. Continue to explore opportunities
to evolve throughout your career, be proactive in acquiring new skills, keep
growing, and you will always be ready for the future.