Attending a class watching
instructional video or reading information are all great
ways to gain new knowledge. However, there's nothing like
applying that knowledge. When you actually do something, this really helps confirm that you
understand what you've learned. This concept is called experiential
learning which simply means understanding through doing. It involves immersing yourself in
a situation where you can practice what you've learned, further develop your
skills and reflect on your education. Experiential learning gives a broader view
of the world, provides valuable insights into your particular interests and
passions and helps build self-confidence. In the context of this program,
experiential learning will give you the opportunity to discover how
organizations use data analysis everyday. This type of activity can help you
identify the specific types of industries and projects that are most interesting and gain the confidence necessary to
discuss them with potential employers. This can really help you stand
out during a job search. Soon, you will put
experiential learning into practice by working on
a portfolio project. A portfolio is a collection of materials
that can be shared with potential employers. Portfolios can be stored either
on a public or personal website. They can be linked within
your digital resume or any online professional presence
you may have such as your LinkedIn. Your portfolio project for this course will involve using the pace
model to set up tasks of a project. Creating a portfolio project is a useful
opportunity since companies will often ask you to complete some type of
project during the interview process. Employers commonly use this method
to assess you as a candidate and gain insight into how you approach
common business challenges. Completing this portfolio will prepare
you if you encounter this situation when applying for data focus jobs. Coming up, you'll be introduced to the specifics
involving your portfolio project. You'll also receive clear
instructions to follow. As you begin working,
consider the knowledge and skills you've acquired in this course and
how they can be applied to your project. Within each portfolio project,
you'll prepare a pace strategy document. This will help you identify key points
within each project to share with the hiring manager, such as the many
transferable skills you've gained. A transferable skill is a capability or proficiency that can be applied
from one job to another. Highlighting your transferable skills is
especially important when changing jobs or industries. For instance, if you learned how to solve
customer complaints while working as a host at a restaurant,
you could emphasize the transferable skill of problem solving when applying for
a job in the data field. Or maybe you learned how to
meet deadlines, take notes and follow instructions while working
in administration at a non profit organization. You could discuss how your organizational
skills are transferable to the data analysis field. The point is you've developed
the ability to problem solve or keep things organized in one role. You can apply that knowledge anywhere. There are all kinds of transferable
skills that you can add to your resume, reflecting on your transferable skills and
the notes you take in your pace strategy document will help you consider how
to convey technical concepts Clearly, this will also help you demonstrate how
you would apply your expertise across all kinds of tools and
scenarios in the data career space. And by the time you're done, you'll not
only have a very useful data analysis process document, but also a comprehensive
set of artifacts for your portfolio. Sounds exciting, doesn't it? Let's get going.