The most important part of
any project is preparation. That involves thinking through all the necessary steps
and anticipated tasks. Let's say you were
planning a dinner party. You would start by
planning the theme, menu, the guest list, and all the other details. Next, you might check
the reservation list, dietary restrictions, or take a trip to the grocery
store for ingredients. Afterward, you would return
home to prepare your dishes, clean your space, set up
the table and get ready. Because you set up
so much beforehand, the evening will be awesome. While this scenario may
be fictional or not, it offers some wise advice. As a data professional, being able to visualize data, predict outcomes and quickly
pivot away from obstacles makes you a problem-solver and a great asset to any organization. Benjamin Franklin once said, "By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail." After almost three centuries, it still applies to
something as simple as a dinner party or as complex
as a deep space mission. Regardless of the project, having a structural framework
in place for how to get that work done can be
immensely beneficial. I've done a lot of data
science consulting in my time. One of the most common problems I've seen is teams coming to me and thinking that
they need advice on which tool or equation to use, and all of us finding
out during the meeting that they're solving
entirely the wrong problem. All the math in the
universe won't help you if you don't point it
in the right direction. But it's easy to
get excited about those nitty-gritty details and rush headlong into
a waste of time. The best teams I've worked with have adopted a
framework to help them focus on the most
impactful actions in the most efficient order, and they've had the discipline
to use it to stay on track instead of running
off into the weeds. For those of you who completed the Google Data
Analytics certificate, you'll recall a structure for the data workflow that was
divided into six phases, ask, prepare, process, analyze, share, and act. This framework is quite useful for a multitude of projects, but often with bigger data sets, you need more freedom
and flexibility. The PACE framework
designed for this program offers the same workflow and structure, but
in a simpler way. PACE is a framework
developed with input and feedback from our team
of data professionals. The intent of PACE is to provide an initial structure that will help guide you through projects. The goal is to lay a
foundation upon which you will develop your
own workflow practices. The PACE framework
helps you solve problems and make judgments
quickly and efficiently. PACE is an acronym. Each one of the
letters represents an actionable stage
in a project, plan, analyze,
construct, and execute. In the plan stage, you'll define the
scope of your project. You'll begin by identifying the informational needs
of your organization. This is where you'll want to ask yourself questions
like the following. What are the goals
of the project? What strategies will be needed? What will be the business or operational impacts
of this plan? Taking inventory
of the project and the tasks required
will help you get a better understanding
of the context of your work and
prepare for success. During analyze, you
engage with the data. You'll start by preparing
it for your project. Here, you'll acquire the necessary data from
primary and secondary sources, and then you'll clean it, reorganize it, and
transform it for analysis. Then you'll conduct a methodological
examination of the data. You will also engage in exploratory data analysis
or EDA for short. This will involve converting the data into usable formats, assessing the
quality of the data, and then diving into
the data to find as many potentially useful insights and directions as possible. You'll then work with
your stakeholders to see which of those areas are worth
pursuing in more detail. Which brings us to
the construct stage, where you're going to
pursue a limited subset of all those potential
insights that looked interesting
to you in your EDA. Here is when you will work
with other data professionals, potentially statisticians
and machine-learning engineers to do things like building machine learning
models and revising those, uncovering relationships
within your data and doing statistical inference about those relationships. Finally, in the execute stage, you will share the result of your analysis and
your collaboration with your stakeholders, as well as the value that
you've unlocked from your data. Here you will
present findings to internal and external
stakeholders, answering questions and
considering different viewpoints. You'll also have an
opportunity to present recommendations based on
what you found in the data. You may discover
that you revisit the planning and analysis stages as you refine models and
incorporate feedback. A good way to visualize the PACE framework is
as a completed circuit, each of the four stages must be engaged for it to
function correctly. The electricity or
flow of energy in the PACE circuit is the
communication between you, your team, and all the other stakeholders
and collaborators involved. When you look at the
stages in this manner, you might think that
communication only flows one way. Well, you always do
start with planning, but don't be afraid to
go back and iterate. With PACE, new
information and feedback can be incorporated in
any part of the process. You might need to return to analyze to clarify some
aspect of the data, and then jump back to execute
to present this aspect to your stakeholders
without the need to construct new models
or dashboards. Along the way, you'll see how the PACE framework
can be scaled to fit within the scope
of any project. The model's adaptability will prepare you for a
dynamic profession that requires a high degree of professional flexibility
and communication. Regardless of where
your career takes you, the PACE framework
is a tool that provides a clear
foundation and structure. Through the continued application
of the PACE framework, you'll prepare for each
courses portfolio project. Then you'll have
the opportunity to practice your evolving skills. Each portfolio project
will introduce opportunities to develop and strengthen your
organizational methods. As you develop your own
intuitive workflow, the PACE framework can be a
great organizational tool. Next, we'll look at how
communication is so crucial.