Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate overview
Hello, and welcome to the Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate! The seven courses in this certificate program will advance your knowledge and help you grow in your career as a data analytics professional. A foundational background in data analytics is strongly encouraged.

Enter a growing field
Why are data analytics skills in such high demand? Companies report the 
largest skills gap
 in data analytics, and the demand for data analytics skills is growing over 
15 times faster
 than the demand for the average skill in the US. As computing power has accelerated, industries have sought to leverage the increasing amount of data available to them. Companies are incorporating data analysis to better understand their customers and improve their products and services. Increasingly, companies are employing data professionals to help guide future business decisions. As a result, data professionals need the ability to better understand the challenges and possibilities of machine learning, build accurate predictive models, and clearly articulate their findings.

Throughout this program, you will explore concepts and scenarios that will help you grow your knowledge and skills as a data professional.

Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate courses
The Google Advanced Data Analytics has seven courses. During each course, you will complete hands-on activities that are similar to work performed by data analytics professionals every day. In doing so, you’ll gain experience that will help you effectively reveal the stories within the data and build models that can provide insight into trends. By the end of this program, you’ll understand how to program using Python, prepare data for analysis, utilize statistics with data, build predictive models, optimize machine learning capabilities, and much more. The courses of the program are as follows:

Foundations of Data Science
 

Get Started with Python
 

Go Beyond the Numbers: Translate Data into Insights
 

The Power of Statistics
 

Regression Analysis: Simplify Complex Data Relationships
 

The Nuts and Bolts of Machine Learning
 

Google Advanced Data Analytics Capstone
 

Seven icons show courses sequentially from left to right.
Google Data Analytics Certificate content
These courses build on many foundational concepts examined in the 
Google Data Analytics Certificate
, and you will encounter links to content from the Data Analytics Certificate courses. This material is meant to provide an optional review and act as a useful resource. 

Benefits for job seekers
After completing all seven courses, Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate graduates get access to exclusive job search resources, courtesy of Google. You’ll have the opportunity to:

Build your resume, participate in mock interviews, and receive job search tips through Big Interview, a job-training platform that’s free for program graduates.

Improve your interview technique with Interview Warmup, a tool built by Google with certificate graduates in mind. Access data analytics-specific practice questions, transcripts of your responses, and automatic insights that help you grow your skills and confidence.

Access thousands of job postings and free one-on-one career coaching with Career Circle. (You must be eligible to work in the U.S. to join.)

Claim your Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate badge, and share your achievement on LinkedIn to stand out among other candidates to potential employers. 

Congratulations on taking this next step in your journey to a fulfilling career in data analytics!

