Now that you have a
general understanding about this program overall, let's talk a bit
more specifically about what you can
expect in this course. We'll start with the basics and a little background on what
the data field offers. While you may already be familiar with work
within the data field, I'm excited to dig deep into some history that shows
us where we've been, where we are, and where
we're going in this field. These key developments and
applications will really showcase all the opportunities this program will
help prepare you for. In this first course, we will discuss the
specific skills and characteristics that
organizations look for in future employees. You'll develop the
core skills necessary to advance on your
journey as a data professional and
integrate these skills with your own
pre-existing abilities. We'll focus specifically on technical and workplace
expectations. There will also be plenty of chances to practice
along the way. Then we'll explore your
job market opportunities. You'll learn about the
variety of roles and positions that match
your skill set. You'll also investigate the
responsibilities and ethics that underpin all roles
within the data career space. With the increasing number of industries that are turning
to the data professions, you're bound to find a role
that fits your interests. We'll also explore some of these industries so you can see where data professionals are employed to make more
informed decisions. Then we'll examine how
larger organizations create teams of data professionals to approach
larger-scale projects. We'll also peek
into the future of data careers and the trajectory
of the field in general, so that you have a good
sense of what the future holds for you after
completing this program. We'll also investigate elements of effective communication and discover how it can empower
you as a data professional. Throughout this course
and the whole program, you will see how effective
communication can elevate productivity and promote
general understanding during the data
analytics process. As you progress, you will gain hands-on data
analysis experience through your portfolio projects. Beginning with the first
one in this course. We've designed a few different
options for you to apply your data skills to actual scenarios with data shared by our industry partners. You can use these projects to showcase your skills
to future employers. Lastly, our instructors
will provide a few career tips and tactics to guide you
on your journey. That's a short
preview of what to expect later in this course. Next, you'll have the
opportunity to go over some resources
that will help you get the most out
of this program. I'll see you in the next video.