You're nearing the end
of your first course. We've discussed
some key concepts, especially in the
areas of communication and data workflow through
the PACE framework. As you're preparing for your
first portfolio project, I'd like to point out
a vital consideration when using the PACE framework. Each stage of the workflow
is not mutually exclusive. Different roles,
teams, projects, and workflows may put emphasis on different stages of
the PACE framework. Although you may be working on a task that is
primarily focused on, for example, analyzing data, there will still be elements
from the other stages of the PACE framework that will
affect your work as well. Let's take a look at the way this program applies
the PACE framework. We can take a global
perspective and say that the earlier courses
are heavier on planning and analysis and the later courses are for
construction and execution. But that's a very wide view. If you take a closer look, you'll discover
that each course is operating within its
own PACE framework. In your Python course, you'll be acquiring
knowledge to enable you to use the language
for data analysis. Because you're
acquiring new skills, much of the course may be classified in the
planning stage of PACE. As you move on to that
course's portfolio project, you'll shift into analysis. But this will have elements
of planning, constructing, and even execution as you
create the final product. Next, you'll learn how to prepare data to reveal
the stories within. Here, you'll lean into
the Analyze stage. As you become familiar with the foundations of statistics, you'll continue analyzing
data and you'll construct some new tools for your toolbox that you will apply in
your portfolio project. While you're
exploring regression, you'll extend your experience
in the analysis stage and put it into practice by
constructing data models. You'll also practice
executing by summarizing the results and insights to provide value to
your stakeholders. Advanced modeling will further
expand your analysis and construction skills within that particular
portfolio project. Even while you're expanding your knowledge of
career resources, you'll be operating
in the planning stage as you collect information, the analysis stage, while
processing information about the job market and the constructing stage while assembling your
resume and portfolio. You'll have an
opportunity to bring all your newly acquired
knowledge and skills together in the
capstone project. Here, you'll have
the chance to use the entire PACE
framework through scenarios and data provided
by our industry partners. Even though some stages are more prominent than others
in each course, you'll still see evidence of
all the stages throughout. You can look at PACE
as the scaffold that surrounds the
exterior of a building. With this scaffold in place, different tasks within
the building can use the same workflow structure without disrupting
the entire project. As you can see,
the PACE framework is an excellent way to help guide you as you gain
knowledge and confidence. Understanding how to classify tasks and proactively interact, will help you develop
good habits and eventually develop your
own professional workflow.