When I interview people for
jobs here at Google, I love checking out
their online portfolios. I find that I feel more confident in
candidates who can demonstrate their knowledge in a clear and
compelling format. Having a portfolio has become
incredibly common in the data field. During a job hunt, it's so valuable to showcase your ability
to understand business scenarios, communicate effectively and
use tools to solve complex problems. Your portfolio can really help you
stand out from other candidates. So far in this course,
you gain lots of knowledge and job ready skills to help you excel. You've discovered the role of data
professionals within an organization and typical career paths. You've explored core analysis
practices and tools and witnessed how data professionals
use them to make a positive impact. All of these things will help you
successfully complete your portfolio project. In addition, you will apply what you've
learned about team members, stakeholders, and clients, such as their
particular roles or priorities. You'll begin by reading the specific
project, you'll be working on. This reading will describe the type
of organization you're working with, the people involved, the business problem
to be solved and other key details. This will enable you to further define the
project, understand the stakeholders, and consider key questions to answer in
order to achieve a successful result. Then you will create a PACE strategy
document, outlining the project's purpose, stakeholders, deliverables, and much more. In this document, you will begin to
integrate the PACE model to identify steps at each stage in the project. For each portfolio project, you will continue to use
the PACE model to guide you. By completing each PACE strategy document, you will be well on your way to developing
your own data analytic workflow. Then in later courses, you will continue
working on your portfolio project and continue using the PACE
model to guide your process. And by the time you're done, you have designed something that you can
use to really impress hiring managers. Plus you have a dynamic example of your
data analytic skills demonstrating your thought process, approach to the problems, the key skills you've gained,
and lots more. These are all great things to
talk about during an interview. All right, let's get started. It's time to discover how you will
help an organization advance through the exciting world of data.