[MUSIC] Hi, my name is Lois An and I'm
an industry intelligence lead at google. What that means is that I helped to
make both our internal teams and our partners and advertisers a lot smarter
about the industry that they work in. Early in my analytics career it
was actually pretty lonely and so I had a really big need to connect. I could not find a job immediately out of
college and I had done lots of things, work different places, didn't really
build deep enough connections to have a community of people in this area. Early on, I started joining some networks. Networking is critical
when entering a new field. For me, what was most jarring about this new thing
was just the newness of being new, right? So you feel like a fish out of water,
you are also subject to that very pesky imposter syndrome, I'm not good enough to
be here, they're going to find me out. And so having a network who was able
to bring me back in and say no, you're qualified and hear all the reasons
why you're qualified, and actually here's how these other skill sets you have make
you an asset here was immensely valuable. In my role currently I collaborate
with tons of different people in data analytics. Collaboration is important because there
are so many diverse parts of the story. So you need people who are willing to,
enable to, and good at asking the questions which are,
what exactly are we looking for? Are we looking in the right place? You need people who
are then able to query and find a set of data,
find the needle in the haystack. You need other people to find the pattern,
and to find what the insight is from the data, and
then you need people to tell the story. Practicing curiosity is something that
will always help you in any role that you're in,
especially when you're dealing with data. I highly recommend participating in
the forums and this certificate program, because it's a great way to practice
curiosity, asking questions, getting comfortable, asking questions,
getting comfortable working on a team and asking questions of your
team is super important. And beyond that you have this
opportunity to connect with your cohort, you are the next generation of
advanced data analytics practitioners. And so getting to know one another, getting to understand what you're all
thinking, and even opening up the door to innovate together is a super
important and exciting opportunity.