When I was a kid, I used to love to take
things apart so that I could see how everything came together on
the inside to make something work. I actually still love doing that today and
this is so much easier to do with tangible things
that you can hold and look at, like a pen, for example. I can twist the tip to
pull each section apart. From there, I can pull the ink cartridge out and
check out the way that the spring works in tandem with the top part of the pen
to make it click. Studying the way things work becomes much harder when we
start thinking about abstract concepts like communication and you're probably
wondering why it's important to talk about it in the first place. In your role
as a data professional, you are the direct connection between the information inside
the data and other projects stakeholders. So let's take a closer look at some key
considerations when crafting a message. All the communicative exchanges
have three key elements that we need to keep in mind:
purpose, receiver and sender. When we think about purpose, I want you to think about the reason why
the communication is taking place. In analytically oriented settings, you might find yourself in situations
where technical pockets of information, require analysis or
reporting. On the other hand, there may be contexts that depend
on strategic insights which will be used to direct a company's financial or
organizational efforts. The receiver is your audience. When you think about
the receivers of your messages, I want you to think about
who you are talking to. It's helpful when crafting communications
to ask: what does my audience already know? What do they need to know? And it's important to keep in mind that
every exchange can cause a rippled chain of events. As the data professional, you're often working as part of
a distributed team across an organization and that's why a message shared
with one receiver may be used for reporting with or to others. The sender is the person responsible for
crafting that message or communication. Yes, you, you're the sender. The sender is a crucial part
of any communicative exchange. As the sender, I encourage you
to think about the following: what's your relationship to the receivers?
What's your role in this exchange? Are you reporting insights? Are you pitching ideas or are you
identifying potential data inputs. Also, what personal biases might affect
the message you're trying to share. At the heart of the relationship between
purpose, receiver and sender, is the message or communication that you intend to share,
which is impacted by all three elements. For this reason the same message might be
shared in dramatically different ways. When the purpose and the receivers
change from scenario to scenario. For example, you might know a data
professional working on a complex project. They've been involved since the project
was sparked by an idea in a meeting. The way they articulate the project
pitch, structure, research, models and findings will change
depending on whom they're talking to. With non technical audiences, they're much
less likely to focus on details about the code used to program the model and
instead they'll focus on the impact of the project. When the audience shifts to
other colleagues, your friend may instead choose to be very detailed about
the code and project logistics. In both cases,
the overall message exchanged, that is, information about the project
was the same. How it was crafted, the details included and
the way the information was organized, that's what was different. Now that we've examined the key
elements of communication, we can really start to think about some of the
best practices that will set you up for success when you communicate
in your future job.