You can learn a lot about a career by looking
at job postings. If you've searched for
opportunities in the data space, you may have noticed different data-related job titles with similar responsibilities
or postings with similar titles listing
different responsibilities. Here's an example,
at one company, the role of data analysts
will focus on using statistics and models to craft insights that inform
business decisions. Another job with the same title at a different
company may focus on, optimizing the
tools and products that automate
analytical processes. One reason for these
inconsistencies is that data tasks and responsibilities
are dependent on an organization's data, team structure and how they make use of insights and analytics. Some organizations choose to be very specific with
responsibilities, others leave job tasks
quite broad in scope. That's why this program refers to the field as a career space. In this video, we'll explore key roles in the data
analytics career space. Two of the most
common titles are Data Analyst and Data Scientist. These can cover a wide range
of job responsibilities, many of which you'll gain experience with in this program. Traditionally, a data
scientist was expected to be a three in one expert
in data analytics, statistics, and
machine learning. But not all employers use these conventions when writing
their job descriptions. Generally, any role that
includes analytics expects candidates to be
able to function as technically skilled
social scientists, looking for patterns
and identifying trends within big datasets. Also, they develop
new inquiries and questions as they uncover the
stories inside their data. Their hard work can help steer, a company's future actions
and guide decision-making. They allow their
organizations to keep a finger on the pulse of what's going on
in the business, interpreting and
translating key information into visualizations such
as graphs and charts, allowing every stakeholder to
understand their findings. At times, they may be tasked
with creating computer code and models to recognize patterns in the data
and make predictions. When you investigate
job postings, you'll encounter other titles with similar responsibilities. For example, junior
data scientist, data scientist entry-level, associate data scientist
or data science associate. All of these roles
include a mix of technical and
strategic skills to help others make
informed decisions. With that said, when
you're comparing positions that have
similar titles, I encourage you to
classify them based on the skills used in their
day-to-day activities. In your career, you
might encounter other professionals
in roles that use data and analytical skills. These roles include
data engineer, insights manager or
analytics team manager and business intelligence
engineer or analyst. Data scientists depend on systems within their
companies to collect, organize, and convert raw data. Designing and maintaining
these processes are some of the most important responsibilities
of a data engineer. Their goal is to make data accessible so that it can
be used for analysis. They also ensure that the
company's data ecosystem is healthy and produces
reliable results. These positions are
highly technical and typically deal with the
infrastructure for data, usually across an
entire enterprise. You also need to have
the ability to get data before it even makes sense
to talk about data analysis. Most of the technical work
leading up to the birthing of the data may comfortably
be called data engineering. Everything done
once some data have arrived, is data science. Similar to how a data engineer oversees the data
infrastructure, there are data roles that manage all aspects of data analytics
projects for a company. Insights managers or analytics team managers often supervise the analytical strategy of the team or of the
organization as a whole. As a data analyst, you will likely report to someone working
in this capacity. They're often
responsible for managing multiple groups of
customers and stakeholders, and they're often
a hybrid between the data scientist and
the decision-maker. Since this combination
of skills is rare, these positions are often
more difficult to fill. This role can have other titles like analytics team director, head of data, or data
science director. Other common job
postings include business intelligence
engineer, or business analyst. This role is highly strategic, focused on organizing
information and making it accessible. BI analysts synthesize
data, build dashboards, and prepare reports to
address specific needs for a business or
requests from leadership. If you're interested
in learning more about business intelligence
and its opportunities, I encourage you to look into the Google Business
Intelligence Certificate. Now that you have some
idea of the roles found within the data
analytics career space, we will begin to take a
closer look at how data professionals function within
their larger organizations.